Hello and welcome back to the course on blotching.
And today we're going to talk about how wallets work.
So we've already built a basic understanding of transactions and slowness hopefully is getting better
and better with the more examples we look at.
We slowly we start of transactions and you check.
So then we added on fees and we had a look at a couple of those.
Today we're going to bring everything together from the perspective of the wallets and it will give
us like a 10000 foot view on what's happening and hopefully that will really drive the point home of
how transactions work and block change and how they're different very different to what we're used to
halfbacks.
All right so let's have a look.
We're going to drop our blotching here so this is like going from bottom to top.
That's like Book 5 0 1 5 or 4 maybe there's more blocks higher up doesn't really matter and we're going
to allocate or like see where those transactional where the actions actions are actually sitting in
our watch chain.
So those ones that we started with originally in our examples in the previous tutorials that say that
we're sitting in block 5 0 1.
Then when I purchased the bike in the bike shop at the first bike that went to block 502.
And also the transaction for the second was actually that also went into blowflies or two as well.
Then the more transactions that came along they were 5 0 3 and then in clockwise or 4 again I went shopping
for a bicycle.
And so one of the things to do now is we're going to look at how a wallet comes up with a value or balance
value because from what we've discussed it's interesting that there isn't actually a balance value in
a block a block chain is this.
You can see there's nothing to say a balance for any person.
Just has lists and list of transactions in every single block.
That's all there is.
But nevertheless when you log into your cryptocurrency wallet you see a balance which says you have
this many bitcoins or you have this much theory or you have this much lighter weight.
How is where does that dollars come from.
The the wallet store the balance does it is there like a centralized system.
Well actually no the wallet actually.
What it does is it calculates your total UTX So that's available to you and shows you that.
And it calls it the balance.
So let's have a look at how this happens we go into it in order for that to happen the world will need
to go through all of these transactions the whole block chain and pull out your remaining UTX.
So let's do that with our examples in mind what what we know about what happens.
So in the first case when I went to spend money I went to buy a bicycle.
And this is what happened.
I took this transaction be 0.6 BTC from Helen and I split it into paying for my bike and sending a 0.1
back to myself.
So these two that we see here so we're going to draw that here so we can see that this transaction actually.
So this transaction had had an unspent output of 0.6 but that unspin output could split into two 0.5
and 0.1.
So what we're going to do is we're going to put a big black square at the end of this transaction to
signify to ourselves that this transaction has been like spent the output of this election has been
spent and that we know exactly where it went so it's going to put a black box here.
OK so let's look at day two.
When I went to buy the second bicycle so it was like a bicycle I took some more unspent action on which
I had.
So we find them here.
This was from De la.
No no.
This one from Adlon from Susan.
And then this one over here which I got.
And I.
All of that's spent to buy this bicycle So let's drill that so you can see where we go from the what
this output from the transaction with Susan when she sent me money.
So that goes in there.
This was actual love goes in there.
And this was actually with myself this was put out because of that.
And so again we're going to put like big black boxes at the end of these two show two for ourselves
to show us that there are transaction outputs have been spent here.
OK.
And then day three when I went to buy the third bicycle and the apple which you checked so that I use
that.
So I used this one at lunch to me for point or for BTC the e-bay transaction point or three and I'd
love to meet 0.3 again and all of those went into funding these purchases by actual fruit and the changes
went to me.
And remember some some of the money went to the fees but that is reflected as we saw in the Coinbase
transaction so that's doesn't have to be issue and be as illustrated here.
All right so if we put that in here it will see that these three have continued on into July.
They have acted as inputs into these transactions so technology would be better to draw the arrow going
like this you know more logical I guess it went to the start of this transaction sort so as we could
see previously in the Prue's trial how they like feed into each other through that tree.
When it was a treat either.
All right.
And so we're going to put three black boxes here.
That means these are also used up.
So what does the wallet do.
Well does that analysis.
So because we can see how they're linked up and what then we'll do is we'll go through the bloodshed
and I'll first identify Well I was probably already done that identify all of the transactions which
ended up in something coming to me some output coming to me.
So this one this one this on this one this this one this one this one this one and this one.
And then the wallet will see out of those transactions.
Which ones still have UTX which ones still have unspent transaction Algren's.
This one this one and this one.
So three to this one because the other ones we can see they have black boxes so we know that they're
been used up.
So only the ones involved like boxes actually have to expose as are all the world has to do now is just
add up these amount adds up these three modes and you get a variance of 0.2 six BTC.
And so that's what you see on your screen when you log in.
But in reality as you can tell there is actually no where for this money is there to be stored in an
cryptocurrency.
There is actually no coins.
They just don't exist as on paper.
There's no coins there's no there's no even like the ones and zeros like numbers on an account somewhere
like when you log into your bank.
There's a number and that is actually how it exists in the bank.
It's a number like I don't know you have 300 dollars in your bank account.
That means in the bank there is $300.
Like in an electronic ledger on your back out on a block chain.
This is for our convenience it doesn't actually exist this money has a number in the block chain.
It exists as a combination of the UTX those that you have available to you and that's all it is.
That's how wallets work and hopefully this tutorial also helps solidify all that knowledge that we discussed
that we developed over the past couple of tourers how transactions work is a very important topic and
like crypto currencies are really booming right now a lot of people are like investing in two different
crypto currencies.
And yeah I like I I really don't think that everybody who is doing that knows how they actually work.
So I think this is important knowledge whether or not you are investing you to use your garments are
you building one especially if you're building one.
It's important to know these things are important to know what you're actually dealing with that it's
completely different to the world that we used to completely different to the world of banking.
And yeah hopefully now it's all clear and we will proceed from here going into more interesting topics.
Call wait to see on the next tutorial.
And until then enjoy Blodgett's.